hello and welcome to World News America
I'm Katrina Perry the Israeli military
says its forces have encircled Gaza City
after encountering Fierce resistance
from Hamas Fighters a joint operation
from ground sea and air forces saw
Israeli troops break through the Hamas
front lines in the north of Gaza earlier
today and advanc rapidly South the
fighting comes as gaza's health Ministry
says more than 9,000 people have now
been killed in Israeli strikes since the
deadly Hamas attacks on the 7th of
October
Israel's intense bombardment of Gaza
continued on Thursday with a third
deadly air strike in his many days on
the densely populated jabalia refugee
camp the Hamas run Health Ministry said
at least 27 people were killed in the
strike which it claimed was near a un
School our International editor Jeremy
bone has the
latest more evidence that nowhere in
Gaza is safe Israel hit bur refugee
camp for days Israel has been ordering
civilians in Gaza to move South for
their own safety bur is inside the area
where they were told to go and thousands
of displaced people were Sheltering
there the UN Human Rights office has
said that so many civilians have been
killed and wounded in Israeli air
strikes that it has serious concerns
that these are disproportionate attacks
that could be war
crimes a girl was pulled out alive
she asks the stretcher bearers are you
taking me to my grave the men try to
reassure her that she's not
dead across Gaza unknown numbers of dead
are buried under the
r in Bur Camp he's asked who he's
looking
for my four children my for children he
says oh God why did you leave me and
die
Israel says it wants to destroy Hamas
civilians it says are killed because
Hamas uses them as human
Shields Israel has released pictures of
some of its latest attacks based on
reports from inside Gaza and Israeli
military statements it seems clear that
they are pushing forward into Gaza
City the pictures released by the Army
are
pre-edited
they don't want to give away
locations Hamas as far as we can tell is
using hit-and run tactics against what
is a much more powerful Army to support
the ground war in Gaza the Israeli
military says it's only using half its
air power the troops have been visited
by Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu I call on the uninvolved get
out get out move South because we will
not quit our effort to eliminate the
Hamas terrorists we will advance we will
advance and
win this is jabalia in Northern Gaza hit
3 Days
running Israel defends its targeting
vigorously but it also knows that
pictures like this every day make it
harder for its allies to push back
demands for a
ceasefire the boys say we didn't do
anything wrong we didn't do anything
wrong the UN says 22 people Sheltering
in four of its schools were killed today
it isn't clear what hit this one in
jabalia what is clear from the evidence
and un statements is that nowhere is
safe in Gaza Jeremy bone BBC News
Southern
Israel well let's speak now to our
correspondent John donison who is in
Jerusalem John another update from the
IDF today they say they have Gaza City
encircled what's the latest on the
military
campaign well their ground operation is
clearly advancing they say yesterday
they said they were at the gates of Gaza
City today Benjamin Netanyahu said they
had passed into the outskirts of Gaza
City uh and today an Israeli military
spokesperson said they had Gaza
completely encircled um so the ground
operation is advancing they are facing
resistance uh we've seen 19 Israeli
soldiers uh now killed uh and it has to
be said that the area on the approach to
Gaza City is relatively open you know
there are small towns and Villages which
are maybe easier to move through once
you get to the densely builtup urban
area of Gaza City itself it's going to
be increasingly difficult and complex of
course and of course one of uh
Israel's objectives is to remove hamas's
military capabilities and their ability
to govern the other is of course to free
those hostages and carrying out that
ground offensive while trying to get
those hostages out alive um is not going
to be easy now we saw more people again
mostly foreign Nationals leaving Gaza
through the Rafa Crossing today is there
a sense that number is set to
increase well look the Egyptian
authorities had been saying that they
were going to try and get through about
500 people uh a day uh foreign uh
passport holders and a small number of
critically injured uh people I don't
think they've reached that number today
I think more than a hundred people have
managed to get out uh we know some
Americans uh passport holders were able
to leave a few at British passport
holders but there are more than 7,000
foreign Nationals in Gaza so it is going
to take a considerable amount of time uh
to get them all out and of course the
key thing is that is just a tiny
fraction of the what is it 2.2 million
or so people who live in Gaza the vast
majority of whom have no chance of
getting out and the US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin is on his way
there he says us diplomacy can make a
difference how is his visit is it likely
to be
received well I think there will be some
us diplomacy in putting pressure on to
try and get uh the American citizens out
I think when he was here a few weeks ago
Mr blinken you know he really offered uh
Israel unconditional support they have
been urging Israel to try and limit the
number of Civilian casualties is and
America believes that Israel is trying
to do that but by the time Mr blinken
leaves this visit you know we're going
to be on the way to
10,000 people killed in Gaza according
to Palestinian Health officials in Gaza
and the UN also publishes those figures
so you know not all of those are
militants a lot of civilians are getting
caught up and you know I was speaking to
a British government Minister yesterday
and I said look when does Israel's
response to hamas's attack on October
the 7th become
disproportionate you know is it at
10,000 deaths in Gaza 20,000 100,000 he
didn't want to give an answer but I do
think as the number of people being
killed continues to rise uh the you know
uh countries like America uh European
countries are going to be under
increasing pressure I think to try and
um put pressure on Israel to uh limit
the number of people being killed okay
John donison in Jerusalem thank you for
that